---
layout: page
title: Cannabis Oil
permalink: /cannabis
---

☘️
###Cannabis has been around for thousands of years, healing many ailments. The potential therapeutic effects have gained a lot of attention in recent years, particularly with positive effects on epilepsy patients, MS sufferers and people enduring chronic pain. Many sleep deprived people have also commented on it’s effectiveness in promoting sleep. There has also been success stories from brain tumour patients. Two of Brain Tumour Research’s Member Charities have now joined forces to launch a study into the clinical effects of cannabidiol (CBD), the non-psychoactive ingredient in cannabis. The research, builds upon previous research in this area and is being carried out by the Children’s Brain Tumour Research Centre at the University of Nottingham in the UK
The calls for research into the effectiveness of cannabis-based treatments have not just been prompted by a growing number of brain tumour patients and researchers, but also by Parliamentarians.
In the UK, it is now available on prescription by doctors who have expertise on it's use, clearly doctors need comprehensive training on this. In Canada it is legal for anyone over the age of 18 or 19, depending which province you buy it in. It is legal in 29 of the US states.
In the UK, there is one cannabis-based drug, Sativex, which is manufactured by GW Pharmaceuticals. The drug is licensed for prescription for the alleviation of spasticity in people with multiple sclerosis and is administered as an oral spray. The main active ingredients of the cannabis plant are called cannabinoids. 
Sativex was rigorously tested for its safety and efficacy before receiving approval, and is distinguished from cannabis in its raw form by its specific components. The composition, formulation and dose have been developed to provide medicinal benefits with minimal psychoactive effects.
Other sources include cannabis oil (CBD), which is legally available in the UK, and the cannabis plant, which is illegal within the UK and in about half of the US States with other States’ laws broadly legalising marijuana in some form. The plant also has limited availability in some European countries albeit under strict control.
Some promising results have come from preclinical studies but scientists have yet to determine whether these positive outcomes can be replicated in brain tumour patients. They suggested that although the drug does not appear to have a direct effect on brain tumours, it may make them more sensitive to radiotherapy. The study at Nottingham follows on from this research.
Clinical studies have recently been carried out to assess the potential benefit of Sativex when given in combination with temozolomide (TMZ). Although the interim results of the trial appear to be promising, we need to wait for the complete data before any specific conclusions can be drawn.
Some people have used cannabis oil as a potential treatment for their brain tumour; it contains the non-addictive CBD component of cannabis.
The oil is currently marketed as a health rather than a medicinal product which means that different regulations apply. The manufacturers are not permitted to make any claims about the efficacy of the agent for the treatment of specific medical conditions. Although the product is made in accordance with general manufacturing guidelines to ensure that it is safe, there is no independent quality testing to confirm the amount of compound present in the product, despite what may be stated on the label. 
Once claims are made about the benefit of the cannabis oil for specific medical conditions, it now comes under medicinal product guidelines and therefore has to undergo clinical trials in the same way as any other medicine before it can be made available.
